# Generalized Knowledge Distillation Trainer

## Overview

Generalized Knowledge Distillation (GKD) was proposed in [On-Policy Distillation of Language Models: Learning from Self-Generated Mistakes](https://huggingface.co/papers/2306.13649) by Rishabh Agarwal, Nino Vieillard, Yongchao Zhou, Piotr Stanczyk, Sabela Ramos, Matthieu Geist, and Olivier Bachem. 

The abstract from the paper is the following:

> Knowledge distillation (KD) is widely used for compressing a teacher model to reduce its inference cost and memory footprint, by training a smaller student model. However, current KD methods for auto-regressive sequence models suffer from distribution mismatch between output sequences seen during training and those generated by the student during inference. To address this issue, we introduce Generalized Knowledge Distillation (GKD). Instead of solely relying on a fixed set of output sequences, GKD trains the student on its self-generated output sequences by leveraging feedback from the teacher on such sequences. Unlike supervised KD approaches, GKD also offers the flexibility to employ alternative loss functions between the student and teacher, which can be useful when the student lacks the expressivity to mimic the teacher's distribution. Furthermore, GKD facilitates the seamless integration of distillation with RL fine-tuning (RLHF). We demonstrate the efficacy of GKD for distilling auto-regressive language models on summarization, translation, and arithmetic reasoning tasks, and task-agnostic distillation for instruction-tuning.


The key aspects of GKD are:
1. It addresses the train-inference distribution mismatch in auto-regressive sequence models by training the student model on its self-generated output sequences.
2. GKD allows flexibility in choosing different divergence measures between student and teacher models via the generalized Jensen-Shannon Divergence (JSD), which can be useful when the student lacks the capacity to fully mimic the teacher.

This post-training method was contributed by [Kashif Rasul](https://huggingface.co/kashif) and [Lewis Tunstall](https://huggingface.co/lewtun)

## Usage tips

The GKD Trainer is a wrapper around the [`SFTTrainer`] class that takes in a teacher model argument. It needs two parameters to be set via the [`GKDConfig`] namely:
* `lmbda`:  controls the student data fraction, i.e., the proportion of on-policy student-generated outputs. When `lmbda=0.0`, the loss reduces to supervised JSD where the student is trained with the token-level probabilities of the teacher. When `lmbda=1.0`, the loss reduces to on-policy JSD, where the student generates output sequences and token-specific feedback on these sequences from the teacher. For values in between [0, 1] it is random between the two based on the `lmbda` value for each batch.
* `beta`: controls the interpolation in the generalized Jensen-Shannon Divergence.  When `beta=0.0` the loss approximates forward KL divergence, while for `beta=1.0` the loss approximates reverse KL divergence. For values in between [0, 1] it interpolates between the two.

The authors find that on-policy data (high `lmbda`) performs better and the optimal `beta` varied depending on the task and evaluation method.

### Expected dataset format

The dataset should be formatted as a list of "messages" where each message has had the appropriate chat template applied.

## GKDTrainer

[[autodoc]] GKDTrainer

## GKDConfig

[[autodoc]] GKDConfig
